# Strategic Thinking 

#### 1. Stage for Strategic Thinking 

* To cultivate a strategic mindset, think about how you can leverage the following activities. 
  * **First is questioning assumptions. Why do we do it that way?** If you can interrogate habits and practices in a targeted way, you can often uncover new ideas and efficiencies that others simply have never thought about. Why are we filling out two forms? Couldn't they actually be combined? Wouldn't orientation be more efficient if the second half took place in a field office? Whatever it is, sometimes asking targeted questions can unlock great potential. 
  * **Next is observing.** So much of modern corporate life is about doing; about moving faster, quicker, making more things happen. Of course, there's a place for that, but that bias means we're also missing opportunities on the other end. If we spend all our time doing, it means we're not really in a position to observe others whom we can learn from or ourselves, which means we can't properly refine what we're doing. **Even more critically, we're not observing the big picture, the macro trends and the way the pieces of organizational life fit together.** Seeing that, seeing what others aren't even looking at, often can give you unique insights about where and how you and your company can gain a strategic advantage.
  * Finally, there's reflecting. "To have a breakthrough idea, it doesn't take time. It takes space." What he meant was that a sparkling insight can happen in an instant. We've all experienced that sometimes, but it happens too rarely because we're too busy and too preoccupied to let it happen. We have to clear the decks mentally, and that means learning to be present and reflect on what we've experienced, kick around new ideas and sit with our thoughts. That's how creativity happens. 
* Everyone knows corporations need to have a strategy. 
  * We're going to expand to Latin America first, then to Asia. **Those are all potentially solid strategic decisions at the enterprise level, but strategy isn't just for corporations.**
  * **Teams, of course, need to have their own strategies in order to implement what the corporation wants to do.** The fact that they're doing those things means they're not doing something else, and that's a strategic choice. 
  * But finally, **it also comes down to the individual level as well.** To make yourself maximally effective at work, it pays to understand intimately your company strategy and your teams. You have to align your own strategy and how you spend your time with what will matter and make a difference in your organizational context. 
  * **strategic thinking shouldn't just extend to how you're spending your time at work, it also impacts your entire career, not just the job you're doing now.** Ask yourself, where do I want to be in three years or five years? Am I on that path now? Or are there things I could be doing to increase the chances of that outcome? Learning a new skill or getting more international experience or volunteering to lead a certain committee maybe. **Thinking about your career with a long-term strategic view can reap major rewards for you down the line.**
* The key to keeping it straight is thinking **about the path from long term down to short term, from the big picture down to the details of how it's going to get accomplished.** 
  * **Strategy is about the big-picture choices you make, how you decide which road to go down.** Strategy is being clear and proactive in choosing what you're going to do and especially, this is the part people forget, what you're not going to do. 
  * **Once you get your strategy down, it's time to think about goals.** How do you operationalize your strategy? How do you make it real? **There are a lot of possible ways to achieve your strategy.** 
  * **Tactics** are the concrete activities you undertake to make your goals, and therefore your strategy, and therefore your vision, come to life. 
* Make time to be strategic
  * **Even once a week, turn it all off and just sit with your thoughts.** Be deliberate about it, and use that quiet time to let your mind wander. Ask yourself the big questions that we don't often engage in. Where do you want to be going? Are you headed in the right direction? Giving yourself space during one of these times on a regular basis can yield powerful insights. 
  * **Or you can create a weekly blog.** Take just an hour a week, ideally at a time when others won't be pressuring you to meet up, let's say late Friday afternoon as the work week is shutting down. Block that time out on your calendar each week, and treat it like a firm commitment, just as though you were meeting with someone else. Make that your strategy time and experiment with the best place to do your thinking. Maybe it's at your desk. Maybe it's taking a walk. 

#### 2. Developing Your Strategic Thinking 

* You have to take stock of the future through evaluating trends and identifying possible scenarios, and interpret the past so you can learn from it. 
  * **One important element is recognizing both macro trends that will impact society,** maybe the rise of driverless cars, or 3D printing, and micro trends that will impact your industry specifically.
  * **To effectively monitor trends, it's important to read voraciously, both general interest and industry-specific publications.** It's also useful to identify people in your life, whether inside your industry or not, whom you think of as particularly well-informed. 
  * Finally, **when it comes to understanding the past, it's important not just to be aware of what happened, but also why.** We need to train ourselves to ask, "Is there more I should be aware of?" Learning to take a holistic view of the past can yield insights that are often hidden to others. 
  * **Getting good at strategic thinking means we can't afford to just live in the present.** We have to develop a healthy intuition about the future and a clear-eyed understanding of the past.
* It has to be an informed strategy. Here are three ways you can become smarter and more nuanced in your strategic thinking. 
  * **First, recognize that good strategy doesn't have to be innovative.** <u>Good strategy, as the professor and author Richard Rumelt has said, is about making choices.</u> 
  * **Second, think about future trends in your industry.** What do you suspect, from your research and general knowledge of the field, that the next breakthrough in your industry is going to be? Then ask yourself, "Will I or my company most likely achieve this breakthrough, or will a competitor, and why?" <u>That can help you understand where you may be under-investing and should reallocate your resources or your focus.</u>
  * **Third, and finally,** **make sure you're soliciting input from diverse sources.**What about the actual users of the product or service you're designing? What do they think, and what would they find valuable? Can you ask them, or go out into the field and learn from them? What about people who are in your orbit, but wouldn't necessarily weigh in, the interns, or the accounting staff, or whomever? 
* Practicality: Get real about your strategy
  * First, **take some time to map out your assets and allies.** What skills or knowledge or experience do you possess that can help you? And what relationships, which allies, can you tap? 
  * Next, **think about what constraints you'll face.** Before you come up with a plan that's just a little too rosy, you want to give yourself a reality check and take note of the obstacles you might face. For instance, it could be people. It could be structural. Or it could be cultural. Taking note of the constraints you face helps you understand how you can begin to overcome or work around them.
  * Finally, **break your strategy down into specific steps.** If you really want to accomplish something, make sure you take the time to develop specific goals and identify the tactics you're going to use to get there. 

#### 3. Implementing Strategic thinking 

* You need buy-in and support from your boss, your colleagues, and your employees. Here are three ways to cultivate that. 
  * First, **if you're developing a strategy, do not unveil it at the strategy meeting.**  Save yourself that self-destructive agony and engage in a campaign of pre-meetings with anyone whose blessing you need to make something work and bring them into the process. That makes it far more likely they'll be favorable toward it, or at least, less unhappy. 
  * **It's also important when you're mapping out your strategy to identify objections that people are likely to have and create detailed responses.** <u>There's no excuse for being unprepared.</u> You'll also want to prepare to face objectors, meaning, individuals who feel particularly threatened by your proposal. You may never win them over completely if you're stepping on their turf, but if you can at least turn the volume down from nuclear to dissatisfied, that's a win. 
  * **Finally, you'll want to put in place a system to maintain accountability with your team.** At a basic level, that might look like sending around an email after every meeting with a recap of what was agreed on and who's doing what. At a macro level, it means reiterating frequently what your timeline is, what the markers are on the path to that timeline, and ensuring there is no slippage along the way. 
  * **The goal of strategic thinking isn't really thinking, it's accomplishing your strategy. And to do that effectively, almost always, you'll need to bring your team on board.**
* Here's a three step system you can put in place to **measure your progress and keep yourself moving forward.**
  * First, **identify your assumptions.** The most successful companies actually create quarterly plans instead. So they're able to be more nimble and adapting to a changed environment. 
  *  Second, **evaluate your progress at regular intervals**. <u>It's useful to build in regular intervals where you evaluate progress against your assumptions.</u> The key is identifying in advance when and how you're going to track your progress. 
  * Finally, **document your processes.** We're not just doing strategy for strategy's sake. We're engaged in strategic thinking because we want to get better at making smart decisions. We want to learn and improve over time, but that's not going to happen by itself.  
  * Likewise, we can learn to make better decisions and develop sharper strategies if we review our assumptions, check them against those milestones and see what we got right and wrong. 
* **It's important to regularly audit your strategy to set up milestones in advance.** Run a small test first to see if your hypothesis pans out, and don't rush into anything without consulting with trusted colleagues and advisors. The bar needs to be very high when you're switching away from a strategy that's already working. Sometimes you do need to change your strategy, but to be effective, you should do it sparingly and strategically.
* A strategy is great and extremely helpful for normal circumstances and even for war gaming, known possibilities but when something truly unexpected happens, strategy has it's limits. 
  * **First, people often make the mistake of clinging to past assumptions.** The best thing you can do when there's been a disruption is take an honest look at the circumstances around you. 
  * **Second, respond decisively.** This goes with the first point about clinging to past assumptions. 
  * Third and finally, **you'll have to embrace improvisation.**In this case, the vision for your organization or your team or yourself and recognizing that if the current strategy no longer works, you can devise another one that will still help you get to your vision. 